```md
Like two pointers, sliding windows work the same with arrays and strings - the important thing is that they're iterables with ordered elements.
```
Implemented using two pointers! 
### Subarrays
Given an array, a subarray is a contiguous section of the array. All the elements must be adjacent to each other in the original array and in the original order. 

[1, 2, 3, 4]
[1], [2], [3], [4]
[1, 2], [2, 3], [3, 4]
[1,2,3], [2, 3, 4]
[1, 2, 3, 4]

A subarray can be defined by two indices, the start and the end 
for example 
[2, 3] has a starting index of `1` and `2` 
We call the starting index **left bound**
We call the ending index **right bound**
**Another name for subarray is window**

[3, 6, 2, 8, 1,  4, 1, 5] -> [2, 8, 1, 4]
left = 2    right = 5

### When should we use sliding window? 
#### First 
The problem will either explicitly or implicitly define criteria that make a subarray "valid"
1. A constraint metric (some attribute of the subarray, sum, # of unique elements, frequency of a specific element...)
2. A numeric restriction on the constrain metric 

For example, a problem declares a subarray is valid if it has a sum <= 10. The `constraint metric` here is the `sum of the subarray`, the `numeric restriction` is `<= 10`

#### Second
The problem will ask you to find valid subarrays in some way 
1. The most common task you will see is finding the best valid subarray. The problem will define what makes a subarray better than another. For example, a problem might ask you to find the longest valid subarray
2. Another common task is finding the number of valid subarrays

`Whenever a problem description talks about subarrays, you should figure out if sliding window is a good option by analyzing the problem description. If you can find the things mentioned above, then go for it`

* Find the longest subarray with a sum less than or equal to `k`
* Find the longest substring that has at most one `"0"`
* Find the number of subarrays that have a product less than `k`

### The algorithm
Consider only `valid` subarrays. A subarray can be defined by a left bound and a right bound. In sliding window, we maintain `left` and `right` variables representing the current subarray. 
Initially `left = right = 0` (the first subarray we look at is just the first element of the array on its own).
We want to expand the size of our "window" by incrementing `right`
If after adding a new element (incrementing right), our subarray becomes invalid? We need to "remove" some elements from our window until it becomes valid again. To do that, increment `left`, which shrinks our window. 

##### Example
a positive integer array `nums` and an integer `k`
Find the length of the longest subarray that has a sum less than or equal to `k`
`nums=[3, 2, 1, 3, 1, 1]`  and `k = 5`

`left = right = 0`
window: [3]
`left = 0 right = 1`
window: [3, 2]
`left = 0 right = 2`
window [3, 2, 1] (constraint is broken: 6 > k)
`left = 1, right = 2`
window [2, 1]
... 
Why is it ok to remove `3` and "forget about it" for the rest of the algorithm? 
Because the input only has positive integers, a longer subarray directly equals a larger sum. 
### Implementation
We need to identify a `constraint metric` 
(in our example, this is the sum of the window)
We can keep track of our window in a separate array (adding and removing from our array), we can always find the sum of our current window just by summing the elements in the separate array. - This is `very inefficient`  - finding the sum will be `O(n)`

We don't want to store the window in a separate array. We just need a variable `curr`, that keeps track of the current sum. When we add a new element from the right we just do `curr += nums[right]` when we remove `curr -= nums[left]`. Now all operations are `O(1)`

How do we move the pointers `left` and `right`? 
We can use a for loop - we are always moving right, we only move left if the window becomes invalid. We need to maintain `curr <= k` this suggests we use a while loop for the removals
`while (curr > k)` -> `curr -= nums[left]`  -> `left++`

Finally, how do we update the answer? `right - left + 1`

```python
function fn(nums, k): 
	left = 0
	curr = 0
	answer = 0
	for (int right = 0; right < nums.length; right++):
		curr += nums[right]
		while (curr > k) :
			curr -= nums[left]
			left++
		answer = max(answer, right - left + 1)
	return answer
```

##### General template pseudocode 
```python 
function fn(arr):
	left = 0
	for(int right = 0; right < arr.length; right++):
		Do some logic to "add" element at arr[right] to window
		while WINDOW_IS_INVALID:
			Do some logic to "remove" element at arr[left] from window
			left++
		Do some logic to update the answer
```

##### Example 1: Given an array of positive integers nums and an integer k, find the longest subarray whose sum is less than or equal to k.

```java
public int longestSubarray(int[] nums, int k) {
	int left = 0;
	int right = 0;
	int curr = 0;
	int answer = 0;
	for(right = 0; right < nums.length; right++) { 
		curr += nums[right];
		while(curr > k) { 
			curr -= nums[left];
			left++;
		}
		answer = Math.max(answer, right - left + 1);
	}
	return answer;
}
```

###### Example 2: Given a binary string s, you may choose up to one "0" and flip it to a "1". What is the length of the longest substring achievable that contains only "1"?  For example, given s = "1101100111", the answer is 5. Perform the flip at index 2 - [11111]0011
```java
public int findLength(String s) { 
	// curr is the number of zeros in the window
	int left = 0;
	int curr = 0;
	int ans = 0;
	for(int right = 0; right < s.length(); right++) { 
		if(s.charAt(right) == '0') { 
			curr++;
		}
		while(curr > 1) { 
			if(s.charAt(left) == '0') {
				curr--;
			}
			left++;
		}
		ans = Math.max(ans, right - left + 1);
	}
	return ans; 
}
```


##### Number of subarrays
If a problem asks for the number of subarrays that fit some constraint - use sliding window + a neat math trick
Assume you have `(left, right)` - how many windows end at index `right`?
1. Current window `(left, right)`
2. `(left + 1, right)`
3. `(left + 2, right)`
4. ...
5. `(right, right)` - only the element at `right`
You can fix the right bound and then choose any value between left and right inclusive for the left bound. Therefore, the number of valid windows ending sat right is equal to the size of the window - `right - left + 1`

###### Example 3: Given an array of positive integers `nums` and an integer `k`, return the number of subarrays where the product of all the elements in the subarray is strictly less than `k`. For example `nums=[10, 5, 2, 6], k=100` the answer is 8 ` `[10], [5], [2], [6], [10, 5], [5, 2], [2, 6], [5, 2, 6]`

```java
  public static int subArrayProdLessK(int[] nums, int k) {
	    if (k <= 1) {
            return 0;
        }
        int left = 0;
        int curr = 1;
        int res = 0;
        for(int right = 0; right < nums.length; right++) {
            curr *= nums[right];
            while(curr >= k) {
                curr /= nums[left];
                left++; 
            }
            res += right - left + 1;
        }
        
        return res;
    } 
```
The work done here is also `O(n)` with `O(1)` space

##### Fixed window size 
The above example uses a dynamic window size - sometimes a problem will specify a fixed length `k`
These problems are easy because the difference between any two adjacent windows is only two elements 
Start by building the first window (from index `0` to `k-1`) - Once we have a window of size `k`, if we add an element at index `i` we need to remove the element at index `i - k` 

```python
function fn(arr, k):
	curr = some data to track the window
	// build the first window
	for(int i = 0; i < k; i++)
		Do something with curr or other variables to build first window

	ans = answer variable, probably equal to curr here depending on the problem
	for(int i = k; i < arr.length; i++)
		Add arr[i] to window
		Remove arr[i - k] from window
		Update ans
	return ans
	
```

###### Example 4: Given an integer array `nums` and an integer `k`, find the sum of the subarray with the largest sum whose length is `k`

```java
public int findBestSubArray(int[] nums, int k) {
	int res = 0;
	int curr = 0;
	// crete first window
	for(int i = 0; i < k; i++) {
		curr += nums[i];
	} 
	res = curr;
	for(int i = k; i < nums.length; i++) {
		curr += nums[i] - nums[i -k];
		res = Math.max(res, curr);
	}
	return res;
}
```
#### Closing notes
Sliding window is very common, however, most sliding window problems also need to use a hashmap (later topic)