This section will cover hash maps and sets - implemented using hashing
A hash function is a function that takes an input and deterministically converts it to an integer that is less than a fixed size set by the programmer.  Inputs are called `keys` and will always map to the same integer. 

Example algorithm of how to make a hash function (not a good one):
1. Declare an integer `total`
2. Iterate over the string, `a -> 1, c -> 3, z-> 26` 
3. Take that value, and multiply it by the current position in the string (index + 1). Add this to `total`. For example, given the string `"abc"` the `b` is at position `2` in the alphabet and position `2` in the string, so it would contribute `2 * 2 = 4` towards `total`. 
4. After going through every character, `total` is the converted value.

### What is the point of a hash function
Basically we want `O(1)` access time! Combining a hash function with an array creates a hash map (hash table or dictionary)

### Some (maybe obvious) things to note 
Hash maps are way better than arrays at `Add, Delete, Access`
The one downside to hash tables is that they do take up more space than arrays! Keep in mind that hash-tables are implemented using fixed-size arrays (same with dynamic arrays). Resizing a hash table is much more expensive than resizing a dynamic array because every key needs to be re-hashed.
#### Collisions
Different keys converting to the same integer - solved through `chaining`
Chaining is the process of storing a linked list inside the hash map's array instead of the elements themselves. The linked list nodes store both the key and the value, if there are collisions, the collided key-value pairs are linked together in a linked list.
```
The most important thing is that the size of your hash table's array and modulus is a prime number
```
### Sets
Similar to hash tbale, same mechanism for hashing keys into integers. Difference is: sets do not map their keys to anything. Convenient for checking if an element exists or not in `O(1)` time. Keep in mind that sets also do not track frequency; if you add the same element 100 times, the first operations adds it and the next 99 do nothing. 
### Arrays as keys
Being immutable is a requirement for being a hash map key. Arrays are mutable, so you can convert an array to a string

### Interface guide
```java
Map<Integer, Integer> hashMap = new HashMap<>();
Map<Integer, Integer> hashMap = new HashMap<>() {{
	put(1, 2);
	put(5, 3);
	put(7, 2);
}};

hashMap.containsKey(1); // true
hashMap.containsKey(9); // false

hashMap.get(5); // 3

hashMap.put(5, 6); // updates the value

hashMap.put(9, 2); // new key, will be added

// iterate over keys: use .keySet()
for(int key: hashMap.keySet()) {
	System.out.println(key);
}

// iterate over values: use .values()
for(int val : hashMap.values()) {
	System.out.println(val);
}
```